---
id: 12971
title: New things in Swift
date: 2020-01-08
author: taimani
layout: post
permalink: /swift/new/
published: false
image: 
categories:
   - swift
tags:
   - new
---
_Table of Contents:_
- [Swift version history](#swift-version-history)
- [What is new in Swift 5](#what-is-new-in-swift-5)
- [What is new in Swift 4](#what-is-new-in-swift-4)
- [What is new in Swift 3](#what-is-new-in-swift-3)
- [What is new in Swift 2](#what-is-new-in-swift-2)
- [What is new in Swift 1](#what-is-new-in-swift-1)

---

> This article explains new things in Swift (major releases).

## Swift version history



| Version     | Release Date       |
| ----------- | ------------------ |
| Swift 1.0   | September 9, 2014  |
| Swift 1.1   | October 22, 2014   |
| Swift 1.2   | April 8, 2015      |
| Swift 2.0   | September 21, 2015 |
| Swift 2.1   | October 20, 2015   |
| Swift 2.2   | March 21, 2016     |
| Swift 2.2.1 | May 3, 2016        |
| Swift 3.0   | September 13, 2016 |
| Swift 3.0.1 | October 28, 2016   |
| Swift 3.0.2 | December 13, 2016  |
| Swift 3.1   | March 27, 2017     |
| Swift 3.1.1 | April 21, 2017     |
| Swift 4.0   | September 19, 2017 |
| Swift 4.0.2 | November 1, 2017   |
| Swift 4.0.3 | December 5, 2017   |
| Swift 4.1   | March 29, 2018     |
| Swift 4.1.1 | May 4, 2018        |
| Swift 4.1.2 | May 31, 2018       |
| Swift 4.1.3 | July 27, 2018      |
| Swift 4.2   | September 17, 2018 |
| Swift 4.2.1 | October 30, 2018   |
| Swift 4.2.2 | February 4, 2019   |
| Swift 4.2.3 | February 28, 2019  |
| Swift 4.2.4 | March 29, 2019     |
| Swift 5.0   | March 25, 2019     |
| Swift 5.0.1 | April 18, 2019     |
| Swift 5.0.2 | July 15, 2019      |
| Swift 5.0.3 | August 30, 2019    |
| Swift 5.1   | September 10, 2019 |

 

## What is new in Swift 5

Swift runtime
Swift 5 is a major milestone in the evolution of the language. Thanks to ABI stability, the **Swift runtime** is now included in current and future versions of Apple’s platform operating systems: macOS, iOS, tvOS and watchOS. 

* new implementation of String
* enforcement of exclusive access to memory during runtime
* new data types:
  * asdf
* and support for dynamically callable types:


Swift 5.1 was officially released in September 2019. Swift 5.1 builds on the previous version of Swift 5 by extending the stable features of the language to compile-time with the introduction of module stability. The introduction of module stability makes it possible to create and share binary frameworks that will work with future releases of Swift. [21]


## What is new in Swift 4

Swift 4.0, released in 2017, introduced several changes to some built-in classes and structures. Code written with previous versions of Swift can be updated using the migration functionality built into Xcode. Swift 5, released in March 2019, introduced a stable binary interface on Apple platforms, allowing the Swift runtime to be incorporated into Apple operating systems. It is source compatible with Swift 4.[20]



## What is new in Swift 3

Through version 3.0 the syntax of Swift went through significant evolution, with the core team making source stability a focus in later versions.[17][18] In the first quarter of 2018 Swift surpassed Objective-C in measured popularity.[19]

## What is new in Swift 2

...,

## What is new in Swift 1

Apple intended Swift to support many core concepts associated with Objective-C, notably dynamic dispatch, widespread late binding, extensible programming and similar features, but in a "safer" way, making it easier to catch software bugs; Swift has features addressing some common programming errors like null pointer dereferencing and provides syntactic sugar to help avoid the pyramid of doom. Swift supports the concept of protocol extensibility, an extensibility system that can be applied to types, structs and classes, which Apple promotes as a real change in programming paradigms they term "protocol-oriented programming"[12] (similar to traits).[13]




Version | Release Date | macOS | Linux
--------|--------------|-------|------
Swift 1.0 | September 9, 2014 | Yes | No
Swift 1.1 | October 22, 2014 | Yes | No
Swift 1.2 | April 8, 2015 | Yes | No
Swift 2.0 | September 21, 2015 | Yes | No
Swift 2.1 | October 20, 2015 | Yes | No
Swift 2.2 | March 21, 2016 | Yes | Yes
Swift 2.2.1 | May 3, 2016 | Yes | Yes
Swift 3.0 | September 13, 2016 | Yes | Yes
Swift 3.0.1 | October 28, 2016 | Yes | Yes
Swift 3.0.2 | December 13, 2016 | Yes | Yes
Swift 3.1 | March 27, 2017 | Yes | Yes
Swift 3.1.1 | April 21, 2017 | Yes | Yes
Swift 4.0 | September 19, 2017 | Yes | Yes
Swift 4.0.2 | November 1, 2017 | Yes | Yes
Swift 4.0.3 | December 5, 2017 | Yes | Yes
Swift 4.1 | March 29, 2018 | Yes | Yes
Swift 4.1.1 | May 4, 2018 | No | Yes
Swift 4.1.2 | May 31, 2018 | Yes | Yes
Swift 4.1.3 | July 27, 2018 | No | Yes
Swift 4.2 | September 17, 2018 | Yes | Yes
Swift 4.2.1 | October 30, 2018 | Yes | Yes
Swift 4.2.2 | February 4, 2019 | No | Yes
Swift 4.2.3 | February 28, 2019 | No | Yes
Swift 4.2.4 | March 29, 2019 | No | Yes
Swift 5.0[44] | March 25, 2019 | Yes | Yes
Swift 5.0.1 | April 18, 2019 | Yes | Yes
Swift 5.0.2 | July 15, 2019 | No | Yes
Swift 5.0.3 | August 30, 2019 | No | Yes
Swift 5.1 | September 10, 2019 | Yes | Yes
