---
id: 12971
title: YouTube
date: 2020-02-12
author: taimane
layout: post
permalink: /youtube/videos/
published: false
image: 
categories: 
   - youtube
tags:
   - videos
---


     YouTube videos are a great way to promote brand awareness and get your product out there. High-ranking videos can also be a great tool for pushing customers through the sales funnel at a lower cost than services like Google Ads.

     But when you create a YouTube video, you want to make sure you're reaching the best audience for your services. That's why you should know how to use keywords effectively.


Keyword tools:

* provide a list of potential keywords
* give data to isolate best keywords for your video 
* create highly targeted content for your intended audience 


YouTube maintains a list of the [top trending videos](https://www.youtube.com/feed/trending). 
To determine trends YouTube checks for users interactions:

* number of views
* shares
* comments
* likes

> Most-viewed videos may not be on the trends list.

Or aim is to analyze what factors affect how popular a YouTube video will be.

First we will try to figure out if there is correlation between the number of views and the number of likes.

It looks like music category seems to have the highest engagment rate of all In the dislike % we see a few outliers in 'people & blogs' -> besides that the dislike % is relatively low


https://www.kaggle.com/ammar111/youtube-trending-videos-analysis



    We analyzed a dataset that contains information about YouTube trending videos for 205 days. The dataset was collected in 2017 and 2018. It contains 40949 video entry.
    71% of trending videos have less than 1.5 million views, and 91% have less than 5 million views.
    68% of trending videos have less than 40,000 likes, and 84% have less than 100,000 likes.
    67% of trending videos have less than 4,000 comments, and 93% have less than 25,000 comments.
    Some videos may appear on the trending videos list on more than one day. Our dataset contains 40494 entries but not for 40494 unique videos but for 6351unique videos.
    Trending videos that have 100,000,000 views and more have title length between 33 and 55 characters approximately.
    The delimiters - and | were common in trending video titles.
    The words 'Official', 'Video', 'Trailer', 'How', and '2018' were common also in trending video titles.
    There is a strong positive correlation between the number of views and the number of likes of trending videos: As one of them increases, the other increases, and vice versa.
    There is a strong positive correlation also between the number of likes and the number of comments, and a slightly weaker one between the number of dislikes and the number of comments.
    The category that has the largest number of trending videos is 'Entertainment' with 9,964 videos, followed by 'Music' category with 6,472 videos, followed by 'Howto & Style' category with 4146 videos.
    On the opposite side, the category that has the smallest number of trending videos is 'Shows' with 57 videos, followed by 'Nonprofits & Activisim' with 57 videos, followed by 'Autos & Vehicles' with 384 videos.


https://www.kaggle.com/datasnaek/youtube-new