---
id: 12971
title: Normal distribution in R | Examples
date: 2020-05-03
author: taimane
layout: post
permalink: /r/normal
published: true
image: 
categories: 
   - r
tags:
   - pdf
---
<script type="text/x-mathjax-config">
    MathJax.Hub.Config({
      tex2jax: {
        skipTags: ['script', 'noscript', 'style', 'textarea', 'pre'],
        inlineMath: [['$','$']]
      }
    });
</script>
<script src="https://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML" type="text/javascript"></script>


## The Normal distribution functions

```r
dnorm(x, mean = 0, sd = 1, log = FALSE)
pnorm(q, mean = 0, sd = 1, lower.tail = TRUE, log.p = FALSE)
qnorm(p, mean = 0, sd = 1, lower.tail = TRUE, log.p = FALSE)
rnorm(n, mean = 0, sd = 1)
```
> If mean or sd are not specified they assume the default values of 0 and 1, respectively.

The normal distribution has density:

$f(x)=\Large \frac{1}{\sqrt{2 \pi \sigma^{2}}} e^{-\frac{(x-\mu)^{2}}{2 \sigma^{2}}}$

where $\mu$ is the mean of the distribution and $\sigma$ the standard deviation.



* `dnorm` gives the PDF density
* `pnorm` gives the CDF function
* `qnorm` gives the quantile function
* `rnorm` generates random deviates


> For `rnorm` the length of the result is determined by `n` , and is the maximum of the lengths of the numerical arguments for the other functions.


For `sd = 0` this gives the limit as `sd` decreases to `0`, a point mass at $\mu$. `sd < 0` is an error and returns `NaN`.


**Example**: _Area under PDF based on condition_

What is the percentage of students with the height > 170 if height is distributed normally $\mathcal N(150,20)$.

We can solve this very easy if we just know the percentage inside $[\mu-\sigma, \mu+\sigma]$ is ~68.2%.

Our percentage should be $(1-68.2)/2 \simeq 15.9$

In R we can integrate the `dnorm` to get the output.

```r
integrate(dnorm, mean=150, sd=20, lower= 170, upper= Inf, abs.tol = 0)$value
```
Out
```
0.1586553
```

The same answer we get with:

```R
1-pnorm(170, mean=150, sd=20)
```

> `dnorm` is PDF, `pnorm` is CDF



**Example**: _Random variable difference_

Men have a mean height of `178cm` with a standard deviation of `8cm`. Womnen have a mean height of `170cm` with a standard deviation of `6cm`. Male and female heights are normally distributed. What is the probability that the woman is taller than the man?

$M = \mathcal N(178, 8), W = \mathcal N(170, 6)$

We are interested to find the **new random variable** $D = M-W$ of the difference.

To calculate: 

$\mu_D = \mu_M -\mu_W=8 \\ 
\sigma_D^2 = \sigma_M^2 +\sigma_W^2=100$

$\therefore \sigma_D = 10, \\ D \sim \mathcal N(2,10)$

To calculate the probability woman is taller than man:

$Pr(W \gt M) = Pr(M-W < 0) = Pr( D \lt 0)$

```R
pnorm(0, mean=8, sd=10 )
```
Out:

```
0.211855398583397
```

**Example**:_ Combine two random variables_

Summer drives to work and back. The amount of fuel he uses follows a normal distribution:

To work: $\quad \mu_{W}=10 \mathrm{~L} \quad \sigma_{W}=1.5 \mathrm{~L}$

To home: $\quad \mu_{H}=10 \mathrm{~L} \quad \sigma_{H}=2 \mathrm{~L}$

If he has $25L$ of fuel and he intends to drive to work and back home. What is the probability that he runs out of fuel?

To calculate this we identify two random variables.

$W \sim \mathcal N(10, 1.5) \\ 
H \sim \mathcal N(10, 2)\\
\therefore \\
B = \mathcal N(10+10, \sqrt{1.5^2+2^2}) = \mathcal N(20, 2.5)$

To run out of fuel we need $Pr(B>25)$

```R
1- pnorm(25, mean=20, sd=2.5 )
```
Out:
```
0.0227501319481792
```


**Example**: _Calculate the $\sigma$ interval percentage_

We would like to have the percentage of probability density before the `-1` (`bef`), after the `1` (`aft`) and to subtract sum `aft` and `bef` from 1 to get the percentage in area $[\mu - \sigma, \mu + \sigma ]$

```R
bef <- pnorm(-1, mean=0, sd=1 )
bef
aft <- 1 - pnorm(1, mean=0, sd=1 )
aft
1-(bef+aft)
```

Out:
```
0.158655253931457
0.158655253931457
0.682689492137086
```

